Card FAQ: “Rivalry of Warlords” & “Gozen Match”
What do these cards do when they resolve?
“Rivalry of Warlords” and “Gozen Match” are Continuous Trap Cards that make it so you can only control face-up monsters of 1 Type (for Rivalry) or 1 Attribute (for Gozen).

When this Trap Card’s activation resolves, look at the face-up monsters you control. If they all have the same Type/Attribute, you don’t have to do anything else. If there are different Types/Attributes, you choose 1 Type/Attribute to keep, and send your face-up monsters that aren’t that Type/Attribute to the Graveyard.

What monsters can I Summon while these cards are active?
While Rivalry/Gozen is active and you have a face-up monster, you cannot Summon monsters that are a different Type/Attribute from the monster(s) you already control.

So you can’t do any of the following to put a monster with the wrong Type/Attribute on your side of the field:

Normal Summon
Tribute Summon
Flip Summon
Xyz Summon
Synchro Summon
Fusion Summon
Special Summon with a monster’s own effect.
Activate a card or effect that can only Special Summon monsters of the wrong Type/Attribute (including effects that could theoretically Summon anything, but currently cannot, such as “Monster Reborn” when you control Spellcasters but the only monsters in the Graveyard are Zombies).
While Rivalry/Gozen is active, you can still Set monsters of any Type/Attribute, and you can Special Summon monsters of the wrong Type/Attribute face-down. But you can’t Flip Summon them afterwards, and they’re sent to the Graveyard after damage calculation if your opponent attacks them. (Also, in that case, you won’t get the effects of cards that need to be destroyed by battle and sent to the Graveyard, because they’re sent to the Graveyard by the Trap Card’s effect instead. But Flip Effects will still activate.)

Are there any Special Summoning cards and effects I can activate?
You can activate cards and effects that would Summon the same Type/Attribute monster as you have on the field.

You can also activate cards that would Summon more than one Type/Attribute of monster. The results depend on what you have on the field:
If you DON’T control any monsters: You can activate cards that would Summon monsters with more than one Type/Attribute. All of them are Summoned, but you must immediately pick one Type/Attribute and send all others to the Graveyard.
If you already DO control a monster: First of all, if the Summoning effect targets, you can only target monsters with the right Type/Attribute. However, you can also activate cards that would Summon lots of monsters without targeting (like “Return from the Different Dimension”), as long as at least 1 of them is the right Type/Attribute. In this case, only the right monsters are Summoned to the field.

The same rule applies to the “Gladiator Beast” monsters. You can return a Gladiator Beast to your Deck and activate its effect as long as there is another Gladiator Beast in your Deck that you COULD Summon that is the same Type/Attribute as the one you returned. However, if you have no face-up monsters when the effect resolves, you can Summon any Type/Attribute of monster.

Can I take control of my opponent’s monster with the wrong Type/Attribute?
You can take control of an opponent’s monster that’s the wrong Type/Attribute with a card like “Mind Control.” If you do, it’s sent to the Graveyard immediately after you gain control of it.

Anything else I should know?
If you control no face-up monsters, you can Summon a monster of any Type/Attribute. Also, if Rivalry/Gozen is being negated, you can Summon monsters of any Type/Attribute. If it stops being negated, you have to send monsters to the Graveyard until you control only 1 Type/Attribute again, just like if Rivalry/Gozen had just resolved.

---

2021 TCG Rules Update (Master Rule 5 Revision)

1. Extra Deck Monster Summoning to Main Monster Zones
Fusion, Synchro, and Xyz monsters can now be Summoned to any of your Main Monster Zones without requiring the Extra Monster Zone or a Link Monster pointing to that zone. This formally implements "Master Rule 5," removing the Extra Monster Zone restrictions from Master Rule 4.

2. Trigger Effect Location Changes
If a monster's Trigger Effect meets its activation conditions, BUT hasn't yet had a chance to actually activate yet, and its location changes between the time its Trigger Effect activation condition is met and the time it actually has a chance to activate, its effect does NOT activate.
Example: If a card gets tributed as a cost and is later banished before it has a chance to activate its trigger effect, that effect will not activate.

3. Summon Negation and Restrictions
Restrictions like "you cannot Normal or Special Summon the turn you activate this card" now only apply to successfully completed Summons. If a Summon is negated, it does not count towards these restrictions. The concept of "Attempted Summon" has been removed from gameplay.

4. Trap Monsters
Trap Monsters that state "This card is also still a Trap" now only occupy the Monster Zone, NOT both the Monster Zone and a Spell/Trap Zone simultaneously. This frees up a Spell/Trap Zone.

5. Extra Deck and "Leaves the Field" Effects (CRITICAL RULING)
Monsters that are shuffled or returned to the Extra Deck (face-down) NO LONGER trigger "leaves the field" effects. The definition of "Deck" has been expanded to include the Extra Deck for the purposes of effects that return cards to the Deck.
IMPORTANT: This means if a Fusion Monster like "Mirrorjade the Iceblade Dragon" is returned to the Extra Deck by a card effect (e.g., Compulsory Evacuation Device), its "if this card leaves the field" effect will NOT activate, because returning to the Extra Deck is now considered returning to the Deck.
Note: Being SENT to the Graveyard, being banished, or being destroyed still count as "leaving the field" and will trigger such effects normally. Only returning/shuffling into the Deck (including Extra Deck) does not trigger "leaves the field."